RECURSION 55

Fora binary tree an inv

ler traversal is defined Fecursively

1 Vint Mn inorder the left subtree ALIhe. 001 r i it exists,
2 Visite
>

4s follows:

Visit in inorder the right subt cof r (if

Example 24, Figure 2

WM Preorder (Fig. 2.89)

tL exists),
8 illustrates » binary tre

¢ With the vertices numbered
Postorder (Fig, 2.8),

and inorder (Fig. 2.80), 5
Once numbers have been assigned by
10 Vertioes by their Assigned numbers. Thus y will denote
has been Assigned the number \, If the vertices
Vesited, then the Numberings h

4 traversal, it is Convenient to refer

the vertex which
are numbered in the order

Ve some interesting Properties,
In preorder all Yertices ing

ubtree with root r have numbers no less

——— . froin...

than F.” More precise y. FD, is the set of descendants of F then y is in D. if
“wt only ifr sre L* (OA BY associating with cach vertex y both a pre-
onder niimber and the Aumber of descendants We can easily determine whether
& Vertex w is g descendant of y, After initially assigning preorder numbers

scendants of each Vertex, the question of

‘an be answered in a fixed amount of time

independent of Wee size. Postorder Numbers have an Analogous Property,
{norder numbers of a binary tree have the property that ci

in the left subtree Ora ve

Mat cach Vertex
Tex v has a number less than v and e A Vertex in
the right subtree has @ number greater than v,
WlO Mote, If we

Thus to find Vertex W, compare
r, then w has been found. Ifw< r, then repeat the Process
for the left subtree; if w > - Fepeal the process for the right Subtree, Eventy-
ally w will be found. Such Properties of traversals Will be used in laterchapters,
One final definition Concerning trees should be made.
Definition. Ap undirected tree is an undirected raph which is connected
between any tWo vertices) and acyclic, A rooted un-
an undirected tree in w hich one Vertex is distinguished
© can be made into a
indirected. We shall us
Uonal conventions for Footed undirected trees as
mary mathematical distinction is th

Sestors to descendants Whereas in a
directions

Footed undirected tree simply by

‘ame terminology and Nota-
for directed Tees, The pri-
ed tree all Paths go from an-
ected tree paths exist in both

wit in a direct
footed undin

25 RECURSION

ri
On. In this section We shall